[KED-3017] Update documentation to showcase plotly integration (#1137)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/03_tutorial/06_visualise_pipeline.md

```

And this will visualise the pipeline visualisation saved as `my_shareable_pipeline.json`.

## Visualise Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz

> [Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) is a free and open source Python library that allows you to make interactive, publication quality graphs. With Plotly integration on Kedro-Viz, you can output your interactive charts as part of your pipeline visualisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) is a free and open source Python library that allows you to make interactive, publication quality graphs. With the Plotly integration on Kedro-Viz you can output your interactive charts as part of your pipeline visualisation.
```

> Kedro-Viz aims to help users communicate different aspects of their workflow through an interactive flowchart. With Plotly integration, we take one step further in this direction to allow our users to effectively share their data insights while exploring the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kedro-Viz aims to help users communicate different aspects of their workflow through an interactive flowchart. With the Plotly integration we take one step further in this direction to allow our users to effectively share their data insights while exploring the pipeline.
```

> We have also used the Plotly integration to allow users to [visualise metrics from experiments](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking).

Reviewer 2: This is fantastic 🚀

> Note: Kedro's Plotly integration only supports [Plotly Express](https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/) charts.

Reviewer 2: I just realised that users might need to install Plotly Express. Can we just explicitly state that they should do that according to the same methodology we use to [update dependencies](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/03_tutorial/04_create_pipelines.html#update-dependencies)?

Reviewer 2: And have you considered @MerelTheisenQB's comment to use RST formatting for notes?

Author: hi, since requirements.in is no longer there in starters. I am just going to say you need to add the plotly datasets to requirements.txt

You can view Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz when you use Kedro's plotly datasets.

There are two types of plotly datasets in Kedro :
- [plotly.PlotlyDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet) - To use this dataset you need to configure your plot in the `catalog.yml`.

Below is an example of how to visualise plots on Kedro-Viz using `plotly.PlotlyDataSet`

> ```python

Reviewer: I think it would be worth adding what files this snippet and the `yml` one below should be added to.

def plot_data():
    return pd.DataFrame([])

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    """This is a simple pipeline which generates a plot"""
    return Pipeline(
        [
            node(
                func=plot,
                inputs="plot_data",
                outputs="test_plot",
            ),
        ]
    )
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: This is a super minor comment that you can choose to ignore but can we please have a plot that relates to the Spaceflights tutorial so that it looks like we continue the tutorial? 🥺

Below is an example of how to visualise plots on Kedro-Viz using `plotly.JSONDataSet`

```python
import plotly.express as px
from kedro.extras.datasets.plotly import JSONDataSet

def plot():
    fig = px.bar(x=["a", "b", "c"], y=[1, 3, 2])
    return fig

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    """This is a simple pipeline which generates a plot"""
    return Pipeline(
        [
            node(
                func=plot,
                inputs="plot_data",
                outputs="test_plot",
            ),
        ]
    )
```

For `plotly.JSONDataSet`, you will also need to specify the output type in `catalog.yml`.

```yaml
test_plot:
  type: plotly.JSONDataSet
  filepath: data/08_reporting/bar_plot.json
```

Once the above setup is completed, you can do a `kedro run` followed by `kedro viz` and your Kedro-Viz pipeline will show a new dataset type with icon ![](../meta/images/icon-image-dataset.svg) . Once you click on the node, you can see a small preview of your Plotly chart in the metadata panel.

![](../meta/images/pipeline_visualisation_plotly.png)

> You can also view the larger visualisation of the chart by clicking the 'Expand Plotly Visualisation' button on the bottom of the metadata panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the larger visualisation of the chart by clicking the 'Expand Plotly Visualisation' button on the bottom of the metadata panel.
```

```

And this will visualise the pipeline visualisation saved as `my_shareable_pipeline.json`.

## Visualise Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz

[Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) is a free and open source Python library that allows you to make interactive, publication-quality graphs. With the Plotly integration on Kedro-Viz, you can output your interactive charts as part of your pipeline visualisation.

Kedro-Viz aims to help users communicate different aspects of their workflow through an interactive flowchart. With the Plotly integration, we take one step further in this direction to allow our users to effectively share their data insights while exploring the pipeline.

We have also used the Plotly integration to allow users to [visualise metrics from experiments](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking).

```eval_rst

>   .. note:: Kedro's Plotly integration only supports `Plotly Express <https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/>` charts. 

Reviewer 2: 👏

```

> You can view Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz when you use Kedro's plotly datasets. To enable Plotly you need to update requirements.txt in your kedro project and add either or both of the below datasets. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can view Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz when you use Kedro's plotly datasets. To enable Plotly you need to update requirements.txt in your Kedro project and add either or both of the below datasets. 
```

>  `kedro[plotly.PlotlyDataSet, plotly.JSONDataSet]==0.xx.x`

Reviewer 2: I think you can add the version number here because we update this number when we go through the documentation.

There are two types of plotly datasets in Kedro :
- [plotly.PlotlyDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet) - To use this dataset you need to configure your plot in the `catalog.yml`.

Below is an example of how to visualise plots on Kedro-Viz using `plotly.PlotlyDataSet`

The below functions can be added to the nodes.py and pipeline.py files respectively.

```python
def compare_shuttle_speed():
    return pd.DataFrame([])

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    """This is a simple pipeline which generates a plot"""
    return Pipeline(
        [
            node(
                func=compare_shuttle_speed,
                inputs="shuttle_speed_data",
                outputs="shuttle_speed_comparison_plot",
            ),
        ]
    )
```

You need to then configure the plot in `catalog.yml` 

```yaml

> shuttle_speed_comparison_plot:

Reviewer 2: This is perfect! 🚀

```

And this will visualise the pipeline visualisation saved as `my_shareable_pipeline.json`.

> ## Visualise plotly-express charts in Kedro-viz

Reviewer 2: After going through the document, I would suggest this becomes "Visualise Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz", then I would specifically mention in the introduction that we use `plotly-express` to enable this functionality.

You can view plotly-express charts in Kedro-Viz when you use Kedro's plotly data connector.

There are two plotly data connectors in Kedro :
- [plotly.PlotlyDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet) - This is where you specify the configurations of your plot in the `catalog.yml`.

```yaml
bar_plot:
    type: plotly.PlotlyDataSet
    filepath: data/08_reporting/bar_plot.json
    plotly_args:
        type: bar
        fig:
            x: features
            y: importance
            orientation: h
        layout:
            xaxis_title: x
            yaxis_title: y

>             title: Test

Reviewer 3: Would be good to keep consistent 2-space indentation. :)

```

> - [plotly.JSONDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.JSONDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.JSONDataSet) - This is where you specify the configurations of your plot using plotly-express python library.

Author: thanks, I am not too sure @AntonyMilneQB  -- can they add this code in the node function (also add return fig) and then output it as plotly.JSONDataSet in catalog.yml

```python
import plotly.express as px
from kedro.extras.datasets.plotly import JSONDataSet

def plot():
    fig = px.bar(x=["a", "b", "c"], y=[1, 3, 2])
    data_set = JSONDataSet(filepath="test.json")
    data_set.save(fig)
    reloaded = data_set.load()
    assert fig == reloaded
```

For plotly.JSONDataSet, you will also need to specify the output type in `catalog.yml`.

```yaml
test.json:
  type: plotly.JSONDataSet
  filepath: data/08_reporting/bar_plot.json
```

> Once the above set-up is completed, you can do a `kedro run` followed by `kedro viz` and your kedro-viz pipeline will show a new dataset type with icon ![](../meta/images/icon-image-dataset.svg) . Once you click on the node, you can see a small preview of your plotly chart in the metadata panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the above set-up is completed, you can do a `kedro run` followed by `kedro viz` and your Kedro-Viz pipeline will show a new dataset type with icon ![](../meta/images/icon-image-dataset.svg) . Once you click on the node, you can see a small preview of your Plotly chart in the metadata panel.
```

Reviewer 2: Just remember to capitalise "Kedro-Viz" and "Plotly".

![](../meta/images/pipeline_visualisation_plotly.png)

The visualisation can be expanded using the 'Expand Plotly Visualisation' button.

![](../meta/images/pipeline_visualisation_plotly_expand.png)

> ## Visualise metrics from your experiments

Reviewer 2: I have a thought that this entire section should be placed in the "Experiment Tracking" documentation. But I would still mention that this is possible by including a sentence in this Plotly documentation about "We've also used this Plotly integration to allow you to visualise metrics from your experiments - making it easier to view trends over time." I'd put this sentence in the introduction and hyperlink to where you put this section.

Reviewer 4: While on this topic, dropping by a quick note that this will be mentioned in the experiment tracking docs that I am currently drafting as well - we can come back to further add the reference once it's merged in

> For [Experiment Tracking](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking) datasets which use `tracking.MetricsDataSet`, the metric trend can be viewed from the metadata panel in a similar fashion to the plotly express charts. To enable this functionality in Kedro-viz, you need to follow the steps highlighted in the [Experiment Tracking](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking) docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [Experiment Tracking](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking) datasets which use `tracking.MetricsDataSet`, the metric trend can be viewed from the metadata panel in a similar fashion to the plotly express charts. To enable this functionality in Kedro-viz, you need to follow the steps explained in the [Experiment Tracking](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking) docs.
```

```

And this will visualise the pipeline visualisation saved as `my_shareable_pipeline.json`.

## Visualise Plotly charts in Kedro-viz

> [Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) is a free and open source python library that allows you to make interactive, publication quality graphs. With Plotly integration on Kedro-viz, you can output your interactive charts as part of your pipline visualisation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) is a free and open source python library that allows you to make interactive, publication quality graphs. With the Plotly integration on Kedro-Viz, you can output your interactive charts as part of your pipeline visualisation. 
```

Reviewer 5: I think _Python_ should be capitalized, like it is in the readme.

> Kedro-viz aims to help users communicate different aspects of thier workflow and with Plotly intergration, we take one step further in this direction to allow our users share thier data insights as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kedro-Viz aims to help users communicate different aspects of their workflow and with the Plotly integration, we take one step further in this direction and allow our users to share their data insights as well. 
```

Reviewer 4: building on top of Merel's suggestion above: 
```suggestion
Kedro-Viz aims to help users communicate different aspects of their workflow through an interactive flowchart. With Plotly integration, we take one step further in this direction to allow our users to effectively share their data insights while exploring the pipeline.
```

Author: lol this is a childhood problem .. i can never spell 'their' 
The number of times my english teacher must have put a red circle on it >< haha

> We have also used Plotly intergration to allow users to [visualise metrics from experiments](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have also used the Plotly integration to allow users to [visualise metrics from experiments](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/08_logging/02_experiment_tracking.html?highlight=experiment%20tracking). 
```

> NOTE : Kedro's Plotly integration is currently only supported for [Plotly Express](https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/) charts. 

Reviewer: You can format this note nicely using:
the "```eval_rst```" formatting

.. note:: Kedro's Plotly integration is currently only supported for [Plotly Express](https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/) charts. 

See e.g. https://raw.githubusercontent.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro/main/docs/source/14_contribution/02_developer_contributor_guidelines.md

> NOTE : Kedro's Plotly integration is currently only supported for [Plotly Express](https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/) charts. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE : Kedro's Plotly integration only supports [Plotly Express](https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/) charts. 
```

You can view Plotly charts in Kedro-Viz when you use Kedro's plotly datasets.

> There are two plotly datasets in Kedro :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two plotly datasets in Kedro:
```

Reviewer 4: Further suggestions alongside Merel's comment:

```suggestion
There are two type of plotly datasets in Kedro :
```

> - [plotly.PlotlyDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet) - To use this dataset you need to specify the configurations of your plot in the `catalog.yml`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [plotly.PlotlyDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.PlotlyDataSet) - To use this dataset you need to configure your plot in `catalog.yml`.
```

```yaml
bar_plot:
  type: plotly.PlotlyDataSet
  filepath: data/08_reporting/bar_plot.json
  plotly_args:
    type: bar
    fig:
      x: features
      y: importance
      orientation: h
    layout:
      xaxis_title: x
      yaxis_title: y
      title: Test
```

> - [plotly.JSONDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.JSONDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.JSONDataSet) - To use this dataset you need to specify the configurations of your plot using plotly-express python library in your kedro node.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [plotly.JSONDataSet](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.JSONDataSet.html#kedro.extras.datasets.plotly.JSONDataSet) - To use this dataset you need to configure your plot using the plotly-express python library in your kedro node.
```

```python
import plotly.express as px
from kedro.extras.datasets.plotly import JSONDataSet

def plot():
    fig = px.bar(x=["a", "b", "c"], y=[1, 3, 2])
    data_set = JSONDataSet(filepath="test.json")
    data_set.save(fig)
    reloaded = data_set.load()
    assert fig == reloaded
    return fig
```

> For plotly.JSONDataSet, you will also need to specify the output type in `catalog.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `plotly.JSONDataSet`, you will also need to specify the output type in `catalog.yml`.
```

```yaml
test.json:
  type: plotly.JSONDataSet
  filepath: data/08_reporting/bar_plot.json
```

> Once the above set-up is completed, you can do a `kedro run` followed by `kedro viz` and your Kedro-viz pipeline will show a new dataset type with icon ![](../meta/images/icon-image-dataset.svg) . Once you click on the node, you can see a small preview of your Plotly chart in the metadata panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the above set-up is completed, you can do a `kedro run` followed by `kedro viz` and your Kedro-Viz pipeline will show a new dataset type with icon ![](../meta/images/icon-image-dataset.svg) . Once you click on the node, you can see a small preview of your Plotly chart in the metadata panel.
```

Reviewer 5: Also change `set-up` to `setup`.

![](../meta/images/pipeline_visualisation_plotly.png)

> The visualisation can be expanded using the 'Expand Plotly Visualisation' button.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also view the larger visualisation of the chart by clicking the 'Expand Plotly Visualisation' button on the bottom of the metadata panel.
```
